[Excel] Refresh Excel low-engagement articles (#5779)
OfficeDev/office-js-docs-pr: docs/excel/excel-add-ins-worksheets.md

---
title: Manage Excel worksheets with the JavaScript API
description: Learn how to get, activate, add, move, filter, protect, and monitor Excel worksheets by using the Excel JavaScript API.
ms.date: 06/03/2026
ms.localizationpriority: medium
ms.topic: how-to
ai-usage: ai-assisted
---

# Manage Excel worksheets with the JavaScript API

Use the `Worksheet` object when your add-in needs to organize workbook tabs, read cells from a specific sheet, react to worksheet events, or protect worksheet data. This article shows common worksheet tasks by using the Excel JavaScript API. For the complete API surface, see [Worksheet Object (JavaScript API for Excel)](/javascript/api/excel/excel.worksheet) and [WorksheetCollection Object (JavaScript API for Excel)](/javascript/api/excel/excel.worksheetcollection).

> [!NOTE]

> > This article applies only to regular worksheets. It doesn't apply to [chart sheets](https://support.microsoft.com/office/create-a-chart-from-start-to-finish-0baf399e-dd61-4e18-8a73-b3fd5d5680c2) or [macro sheets](https://support.microsoft.com/office/working-with-excel-4-0-macros-ba8924d4-e157-4bb2-8d76-2c07ff02e0b8).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> This article applies only to regular worksheets. It doesn't apply to [chart sheets](https://support.microsoft.com/Excel/get-started/create-a-chart-from-start-to-finish) or [macro sheets](https://support.microsoft.com/Excel/working-with-excel-4-0-macros).
```

Reviewer: The SMC URLs have changed with the migration. Old links still work, they just redirect. Not sure when we'll want to update links throughout the add-ins docs.

});
```

> The `id` property of a worksheet uniquely identifies the worksheet in a given workbook. Its value stays the same even when you rename or move the worksheet. If you delete a worksheet from a workbook in Excel on Mac, the `id` of the deleted worksheet might be reassigned to a new worksheet that you create.

Reviewer: Seems like the Mac detail still belongs in a !NOTE

Author: Probably - it is still an aside separate from the sample. As a general observation, I feel like we overuse Notes to the point readers glaze over them.
